## Generative AI policy

The goals of this class are to help students learn the essentials of data visualization, analysis, and communication.While generative AI can be helpful for boosting productivity at boilerplate tasks during coding or writing, we find that over-relying on tools like ChatGPT or CoPilot can undermine a student's learning of fundamental skills and concepts. Further, it can diminish a student's capacity for deep thinking and critical problem solving by offloading the intellectual struggle inherent to creative work. For these reasons, *students are forbidden from using generative AI to complete coursework for them (e.g., pasting assignment prompts into ChatGPT, using ChatGPT to write the project)*. While we discourage the use of generative AI, we do not prohibit it entirely. We recognize their are legitimate uses of this technology that students may wish to practice through their coursework. Be extremely cautious when using such tools, as they have no sense of what is correct or true and may produce plausible-looking code or writing that contains errors. 

*The following are the only permissible uses of generative AI*:

- Students may use autocomplete tools such as CoPilot to complete individual lines of code, as long as students understand exactly what that line of code is producing. Students should exercise caution when repeatedly using this functionality (i.e., generating several lines one after the other). 
- If students don't understand what a piece of code is doing (e.g., a piece of code provided by the instuctors or found in an online example), students can ask a generative AI questions about that code. Students should follow up on these explanations by looking up key pieces of syntax in the API documentation.
- Students may ask generative AI to review their work (e.g., giving feedback on code or writing, helping to diagnose bugs in code or issues with the flow of a written argument). If generative AI suggests an alternative, the student should use this to inform their own thinking and then manually revise their own solution.

*The following are NOT permissible uses of generative AI*:
- Students may not use generative AI for any part of any write-up, including analysis or design rationales (you must describe what you did with your own words).
- Generating more than 5 lines of code at a time from a generative model is not allowed.
- The generative model should not be used to solve the main intellectual aspect of any coursework, such as proposing a project idea or a solution to assigments.
- Presenting the outputs of generative AI as one’s own work, without explicit citation and acknowledgment of what specifically was used from such models is not allowed. This includes presenting AI-generated code or writing revisions as a students own work.


## Code of conduct

**Diversity and Inclusion**: Students are expected to treat each other with respect and to give due consideration to each other's stances and positions. Discrimination of any kind will not be tolerated, along the lines of gender identity, sexuality, disability, generational status, socioeconomic status, ethnicity, race, religion, national origin, culture, or otherwise. Please see the UChicago [Commitment on Diversity](https://diversityandinclusion.uchicago.edu/commitment/). Additionally, we are committed to providing equitable access to education at UChicago. Students who have been approved for academic accommodations through [Student Disability Services (SDS)](https://disabilities.uchicago.edu/) should follow the procedures established by SDS for using accommodations. Regardless of identity or status with SDS, students with concerns or questions about issues of diversity and inclusion should email the instructor.

**Academic Integrity**: We take academic honesty very seriously in this class. Students must be in class to receive participation points for quizes, and any efforts to collaborate with classmates to subvert this attendance mechanism are an academic honesty violation. Further, students must not collaborate or copy from outside sources on non-collaborative work such as assignments and the project. Collaboration is allowed on *exercises only*, but students must turn in their own copy of the work as instructed. Students are not permitted to use automated assistants such as *ChatGPT* or *GitHub CoPilot* to do their coursework for them (see above), and misrepresenting AI-generated content as student work is an academic honesty violation. Additionally, students should be aware of the UChicago policy on [Academic Honesty and Plagiarism](https://studentmanual.uchicago.edu/academic-policies/academic-honesty-plagiarism/). The gist of academic integrity is that you should always do and submit your own work.

**Sexual Misconduct**: Title IX prohibits discrimination on the basis of sex, including sexual assault, sexual abuse, sexual harassment, dating violence, domestic violence, and stalking. Sexual misconduct is completely unacceptable at UChicago (and anywhere else), including any interactions that occur related to this course. For related resources, please see the UChicago website about [Title IX and Sexual Misconduct](https://equalopportunityprograms.uchicago.edu/title-ix-and-university-policy/). Students seeking help or guidance related to an incident of sexual misconduct will be supported. Students should be aware that, in certain situations, the University may have an institutional obligation to respond to a report of sexual misconduct and that, as a faculty member, *your instructor is required by Title IX and the University of Chicago to report incidents of sexual misconduct*, even if students request to keep the information confidential. If you would like to speak to someone confidentially about an incident of sexual misconduct, please see the University's [Confidential Resources](https://equalopportunityprograms.uchicago.edu/confidential-resources/).

**Student Health and Wellness**: Student's mental and physical health are of primary importance both for reasons of common human dignity and to create a suitable learning environment at UChicago. If you or someone you know needs or might benefit from mental health services, please consider reaching out to [UChicago Student Wellness](https://wellness.uchicago.edu/mental-health/), whose services do not come at any additional cost to students.

**If you are sick, please do not come to class or in-person office hours.** If you need to miss class because of an illness, please email your instructor. Students who have been exposed to or who are experiencing symptoms of COVID-19 should contact [UChicago Student Wellness](https://wellness.uchicago.edu/) to be tested. Other public health concerns should be directed to [UCAIR](https://ucair.uchicago.edu/). If there is an emergency, please call 773-702-8181 or dial 123 on any campus phone, or call 911 for emergency response.

**Attendance and Participation**: DATA 23700 is 100% in-person. However, if students need to miss class for some reason, they will be able to access lecture slides on Canvas, and they are encouraged to ask peers to share notes from the missed class. With a few expections on days when we do exercises in a flipped classroom, lectures will not be recorded. The instructor and TAs are happy to discuss what was missed during office hours. Please do not email the instructional staff with requests for a summary of missed lectures; we will tell you to ask a peer for notes and/or visit us at office hours. *Students who miss an in-class exercise are still expected to turn that exercise in for credit. Missed quizes cannot be made up.*